---
title: think array in C
date: 2018-02-24 10:15:24
categories:
- C
tags:
- C
- basis
- array
---
Ok,here i will show the detail of array.

## How to get length of array

In fact,we should class many scene.

<!--more-->

### String.

String is a array of char.As we all know,when you create a string or array of char.C will self-acting add a char("\0") to the end.So,when you create a array which length is 6.Finally,it length is 7.

Now we use this to get length.

{% codeblock %}
void getLength(char* a){
	int i = 0;
	if(a == NULL){
		return;
	}
	while(a[i] != '\0'){
		i++;
	}
	printf("%d",i);
}

int main(){
	char a[15] = "hello world\0";  length = 11
	char b[15] = "hello world";    length = 11
	char c[15] = "\0hello world";  length = 0
	getLength(a);
	getLength(b);
	getLength(c);
	return 0;
}
{% endcodeblock %}

### Int

The array of int not have "\0",But if you create a array in function we can use the following way.

{% codeblock %}
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
int main(){
	int a[5]   = {1,2,3,4,5};
	int length = sizeof(a)/sizeof(a[0]);
	printf("%d",length);                 //length = 5
	return 0;
}
{% endcodeblock %}

But when we delivery a int-array variable to function.We can not get length.

{% codeblock %}
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
void getLength(int* a){
	int length = sizeof(a)/sizeof(a[0]);
	printf("%d",length);  
}

int main(){
	int a[5] = {1,2,3,4,5};
	getLength(a);           //length = 2.sometimes is 1,because of system.
	return 0;
}
{% endcodeblock %}
Because the array variable is just pointer,not the whole of array. 

so,when we get length of int-array.We can delivery the length or make a sentry.

## How to use pointer in array

I recommend you should my article of pointer at first.[pointer in c](/2018/02/22/basis1/)

Ok,I will give code.

{% codeblock %}
#include <stdio.h>
void printArray(int* a,int len){
	int i = 0;
	for(i;i < len;i++){
		printf("%d\n",*(a+i));  //right
		printf("%d\n",a[i]);    //right
	}
}
int main(){
	int c[3] = {1,2,3};
	printf("%d\n",c);                          //c is address
	printf("%d\n",*c);                         //*c is the same as c[0]
	printf("%d\n",*(c+1));                     //*(c+1) is the same as c[1]
	
	printArray(c,3);
	return 0;
}
{% endcodeblock %}